What is a web server?
It is a computer that is designed to handle http requests.

A servlet is a java object designed to handle incoming requests, not solely http. Servlets can
generate responses and process requests using java logic.

Servlet Container: Where the servlet lives. It contains one or many servlets, and is primarily
responsible for mapping the servlets to different addresses. It helps to configure out servlets.

Tomcat - a server designed by apache that will host or house our servlet container.

Our web.xml (aka Deployment Descriptor) - gives the servlet Container mapping and configuration details.
Decised what requests are handled by a servlet.

Servlet Lifecycle: 
1: Servlet class is loaded into the servlet container.
2: Servlet class is instantiated
3: Servlets init() method is called. The main Servlet class implements the init method. It is 
run only once and sets up initial configurations/parameters.
    -Lazy: init is called upon the first request to a servlet.
    -Eager: init is called as soon as the application starts.
4: Servlet service() method is called upon each request to the servlet. The service() method delegates 
the request to doGet(), doPost(), etc.
5: Servlet destroy() method is only called once and that is when the app is shut down.

ServletConfig: an object specific to a single servlet that holds info on that servlet.

ServletContext: an object that holds info about the entire servlet container, and is accessible to all
servlets.

URI: Uniform Resource Identifier - Identifies a file or resrouce/servlet.

URL: Uniform Resrouce Locator - The host + port + URI

Forward: Occurs on the server side, and sends a request from one servlet to another. Doesn't change URL
in browser

Redirect: when a resrouce tells the client to send another request to a different location. Changes
URL in browser

Session handling:
1: Use HttpSession object - keep track of session server side.
2: Cookies - store information client side. Be wary of storing sensitive info.

Don't recommend:
3: URL rewriting - storing session info in URL.
4: Hidden forms - elements on HTML that are not displayed.